how everyone.
So let's continue.
In the previous lecture,
we got an idea about what Islamic Shell Shell is.
A interpreter that executes commands leaves from the standard input device,
such as key would or from a file.
So basically,
it's a interpreter.
Now you have got a shell.
If you want to communicate with you,
Colonel,
you need to type some.
Come on,
you can simply type of single Come on.
Or if you have a list of commands,
then you can put those commands in a file on Execute that file and I the shell Get this
taught it when you log in or open a console.
Various shelter off level for landings,
as shown below.
The most important is your best shell born again shell.
Most common shell in Lenox.
It's an open source,
or we can say it's a default shell as well.
The next is your she shell.
The sea shells in Texas on uses are very similar to the C programming language,
so basically it is for application users who is walking on C language like they're
developing DCC or the lip on your system Linus operating system.
The change there,
you know,
before shell from bastard seashell.
Every cell has its own properties.
The next one is a geisha that is a con shell.
It was created by David Corn at Arian de BellSouth.
The corn shell was also the base for the Bush action.
So if you'll see an operating system that is HP UNIX,
they're before Shell is your posh section or seashells.
The next one is a D.
C.
Sell.
It is an ass,
but come completely compatible.
Wasn't off the Barkley UNIX.
That is seashell.
So different shells we have available under Atlantis operating system.
So whatever you want,
you can use it.
That is up to you.
But before one is your best shell,
there are various ways to get the shell access.
No,
I'm a user.
I want to,
you know,
communicate or interact with.
You know,
my Landis operating system.
We know that we need a medium.
We need an interpreter.
That interpreter is shell.
But how to get the sham So they have various views to get the shower.
The most important on common is connect wire sick yourself.
That is a message.
So he should have put the software with the help of POTUS software you can log in to the
any of the box.
What did you do?
Supply?
You need to supply the name of the sewer or i B once it will put connect R.
Okay,
it will go to the server,
and then you have to supply the user name and password once or something like that.
Cutting credentials,
you'll get the shell.
And after that,
you can interact with your Lennox,
Carmen,
other ways your terminal or console s well.
So this is my Lennox operating system on here.
You can see that I have already logged into my Lennox operating system that is actually
using party.
So let me show you again.
I've taken a new section here.
I need to put the host name or i p address.
So I'm just typing that.
Beatrice,
this one,
this is idea this off my line X operating system already is asking for the user name.
I have tied the user route.
If you have some different user,
you can type a different user.
I have given the password as well.
Now I have loved into the box.
They So this is a cell.
We can say that we have got in here.
If you want to find what All of little shells in your system.
So simple.
Five This Come on.
So these are the cells of level on your land,
its operating system.
And if you want to check what is your before shell you have and you need to fight like this
one.
Like you want to know that I have learned to this box What's what shall I got now?
So my shell is you know,
this one best shell.
You can also fired this.
Come on.
This committee also will tell you you have logged in with the box.
Obviously,
there would be a process that has been kitted for you shall as well.
If somebody will kill this process.
3855 What will happen?
Your session will be terminated,
right?
If I'm from another,
you know,
participation.
And if I'm going to kill this one,
you'll see that my session will be going out.
So with this come on,
that is Bs.
Dela dela.
It will tell you that you have in order into the box and God this shell and the process
idea off your Shelly's your to it.
Five.
Here it could be different for your as well.
So I'm displacing control.
L so basically full press control.
It will clear the screen.
All right,
now,
this is the you know,
and I have got We can say this is a shell I have got.
Now I want to type some Come on.
Like I wonder type did.
Come on.
So basically what happened in the back end?
As a user,
road users have logged,
and I have got the shell.
I want to get the time off the system,
so have simply fired Did come on so daily that come on which is already defining your
Landis operating system.
So if you want to see a simple five,
this one So this is the program which has been created for the debt.
Come on.
All right,
So if you have fighting did come on.
So at the back.
And this problem has been initiated on this program is going to your camel like I want to
know the date on colonel isn't spawning back like this is a car indeed.
Right.
But as a user,
there where I need to fire this did come on.
Obviously on shall only right.
This is one thing.
Another thing is that if you want to get more knowledge about any come on,
you can use the help as well.
So getting helping Lennox like you want to check the manuals for any common you can like,
man.
Any common like up time,
you can no stop.
Time is basically it.
Tell how long the system has been running.
Suppose there is a common you do not know about it.
So you can simple use.
Man,
that is Manuel on type this.
You can also use the info documentation as well.
So in for a commendation is also available.
Okay,
You can also like you like this year's been updated up time.
Hi,
Senneff and hope so it will tell you what all options we have like there is a command it
Come on on.
We did Come on.
You can also use some more options.
Right?
So this is a basic idea.
Like what we shall all about Andi from the cell,
how you can type come ons.
There is another Come on PWD which tells your present working directory.
If I'm going to change my directory from,
you know,
less room temp again.
If I'm going to fire people agree,
you will see a new out port That that tells my location.
I mean,
I was in celestial.
Now I'm in Celestand.
So friend there,
cell for this lecture.
Hope you got some idea,
but my ticket will soon the next victor.